We'll come back and this video we are going to extend our main window class in order to add functionality.
So what I want to do is I want to instead of having checkboxes here to have a simple text field or edit
text it's called text edit and line at it.
I want to use the line edit because I just want to enter some text and there's line edit and one some
body press this button the text that is entered here should just be printed onto the console.
Nothing too fancy but that's what will help you to understand how you can get values from your UI elements.
So this push button has the name my button and I would like to change the name of it.
So in order to do so I press on the push button and then I go to dequeue abstract button and I'm changing
the text here.
So I'm going to change the text to something like safe.
So it's just going to save the data whatever we enter here as text will be saved.
And in our case it will just be printed onto the console but we could save that somewhere in the file
or something like that.
OK so I'm going to save this save this main window UI.
I go back to my pie charm in here.
I run my build wife file in order to recompile my UI.
And once that is done I can see the changes have been made.
Well I can see directly but we will see it in a second.
And what I want to happen now is instead of using my CB toggle because there should be no Sebille check.
C B C B.
So you see there's no checkbox anymore.
I had it called check box or c.b.
You can see no checkbox either.
So actually I should not be able to access the CB anymore if I run this code.
And actually I'm running the code once again by far on the main code.
You can see I'm getting an error here.
It says you main window object has no attributes Sibi so it cannot access this anymore.
Ok so I'm going to get rid of this but what I want to do instead is I want to call a method that will
take care of button clicks and that's the beauty about having a class because now you can create methods
in here and I'm just going to say OK on button click.
I want to call something where I execute some code and then here I'm just going for now press or write
something like On button on Osco click OK.
So that's it for now.
Now in here I need to of course tell it now to connect with this on button click.
Because otherwise it won't work.
But now it doesn't know where it is on button click is coming from so I need to tell it it's in your
self so it's self dot on button click.
In this case because the on button click method is in the same class and it's in the same main window
class pretty much.
OK so now it's connected.
And now what we should see is if we press on the button then it should write something like On button
click.
So let me run that press safe and you see on button click post saved or was pressed.
Now what I want to happen is that if I enter some code in here or some text my text or whatever and
I perceive that the text is displayed next to it.
So how do I do that.
Well I need to read the data from that text and in order to do so I need to get the input from that
text.
Now let's go back to cute to see how this element is called.
And it's called line edits.
So let me change the name of the line at it.
So once I press on it and I go to the object name here I can change it.
So let's say I change it to input very basic.
Now it's called input.
And if I save this now and I go back here I run my build.
I don't need to open it but I run my build here and I recompile pretty much my UI.
Now go back to Maine where I can do now is I can access.
Self-taught Why Dot.
And here we created this thing called input.
So let's use inputs and we want to get something from it.
But before we do that we're just going to set something to it.
So I'm just going to say OK set the text to exclamation mark exclamation mark exclamation mark.
So this way I can actually set the text in the constructor so if I run this again you can see that there
are three exclamation marks in here because within the constructors so pretty much when this object
is created.
And in this case the whole window is created.
I said the UI input.
I said its text attribute two exclamation marks.
So if I check out what this text attribute is it's pretty much in here.
Is this attribute here.
So currently it's empty but after initialization there are three exclamation marks in here.
So even if I write something here like I know what's up and safe this recompile my built and I go to
my main again.
You will see that it still has three exclamation marks and that is because this here overwrites pretty
much anything that we needed in cutesie or in the qued editor or creator.
So let's look here and here we should search for highwater.
They were thinsulate UI.
So that's the method that is called and that takes in the changes that we have made.
So for example to my button I've changed the name to save button or to text of it the same for the import
text is said to.
Hi what's up.
So we translated that here.
But this translates to why is called before this constructor is called so the constructor pretty much
overrides whatever was written in there.
And that's exactly what the beauty about it is because now we can pretty much adjust it our way as we
please.
OK.
So that's how we can set the text.
But how do we get the text.
Well very similar.
So let's create a new variable called text and we'll just say self-taught UI data input.
And here there is a method called text and that will pretty much give us the text from the UI input
which is our line edit.
So this thing here.
OK.
Now what we can do is we can display this text or print that text onto our console.
So let me save it again.
Let's run it and you will see what's up is here so let me press the save button and you can see an button
click.
Hi what's up.
Or I changed the text and I pressed the save button and you see I changed the text is printed here.
So now you can pretty much get the text from it and use it for whatever.
You could also get the state of your checkbox and of pretty much any other object that you have.
So if we take our check box once again real quick I just drag it in here.
But there is something called it's state.
So is it checked or not.
And here it's called checked.
So I could get the checked state and read it and then based on whether the user has checked it or not.
I could run some code.
So if the user has checked the code and I press save then I could save it if the user doesn't check
check box and I press save and I would just ignore the save button for example so I could only executed
if checked is actually checked or this checkbox is checked because otherwise the user for example hasn't
accepted our terms of use or something like that.
So I'm going to get rid of this checkbox and I'm going to save this hand in the next video we are going
to create our little B.M. I calculator and this time not with just a console but actually with a UI.
So see you in the next video.